> Hello once again,

> Sorry about the delay in getting you the feedback, didn't realize how busy this week would be. For that reason, I'm sticking to a couple of general comments here. Overall I like the manuscript and think it does a good job in establishing the scope and efforts in the first part.

Comments for the Results section:

> Paragraph starting from Line 245: "In some cases.." I would just change the order of the sentence here as you end it by stating how most of the parameter values overlapped before in the next sentence discussing some of the cases where you saw differences between PFTs. So just start the sentence by stating that the most of the parameter values overlapped, but there were some cases where you saw differences in the estimated parameter values.

> Paragraph starting from Line 253: "The ability of EDR to reproduce spectra at every site was site-specific." I honestly don't understand what this sentence is trying to say as it seems contradictory.

Comments for the Discussion section:

Paragraph starting from line 273: So for me one of the things missing in this section is that the benefits are not presented in a concrete enough manner. In this paragraph the manuscript claims that the benefit is reduced assumptions, but doesn't list any. So what I would suggest here is that you split the paragraph in two. First paragraph is similar to here, except it gives some clear examples of which assumptions can be avoided by doing this. Then the second paragraph would link those avoided assumptions in to what the results show. Essentially why some of the results are a consequence of avoiding those assumptions and thus represent an improvement.

Paragraph starting from line 279: This paragraph feels somewhat awkward and I think the reason for that the justification for it is in the last line where you state that this is the reason these results are applicable to all these models. I would suggest combining the second and third sentence by highlighting how these results are applicable to all ecosystem models that use the two stream model and then list some of those models like you do here. 

> I'm sorry about the short comments here and I hope they help in any manner. Good work overall.
>
> -- Toni

